[Transcript missing]
I swear to God I just saw the
same number of hands go up.
Okay, that's just creeping me out.
All right,
so as I said in the first session,
my demonstration today,
including the last session,
is one single project that I'm building.
In the last session,
which was introduction to Final Cut Pro,
I touched on the basics and invariably
went a little bit deeper than I probably
needed to on a lot of those things just
because there's a lot of interest in it.
This time,
I'm working with the same project.
I'm going to spend a lot more time
focusing on the more advanced stuff,
and I'm going to try and go through
the more basic stuff much more quickly.
Clearly,
there's going to be a bit of overlap,
potentially even a bit more
overlap than I said the first time
because there were so many advanced
questions in the first session.
Hopefully,
I won't put anybody to sleep here talking
about some of the same stuff over again.
But with that said,
let's just go ahead and get going.
So, advanced Final Cut Pro, that's me,
Joseph Linaschke.
I'm the technical marketing manager at
Apple for the Pro Apps Marketing Group.
What that means is my team is
responsible for all the demo
content that goes out worldwide.
We also do all the presentations,
so if you go to NAB or Macworld
and see a Pro Apps demonstration
or the upcoming SIGGRAPH,
that's us.
So, that's my background and where
I come from and why I might maybe
potentially know what I'm talking about,
although no promises.
All right, Apple, innovation.
This is what obviously
Apple is all about,
and of course one of our most recent
innovations is Final Cut Pro HD,
high definition.
Now,
Final Cut Pro HD is the newest version.
It's version 4.5,
and it is the one that gives
you access to the new HD format,
DVC Pro HD.
And I'll get into quite a bit
more on that in just a moment.
But just a very quick
little introduction here.
Over a quarter of a million
Final Cut editors out there.
I'm almost afraid to ask,
but how many people are
using Final Cut Pro?
Awesome.
How many aren't?
If I see the same number of hands,
I quit.
All right, so maybe we'll get a few
converts out of this.
So a quarter of a million
editors out there,
and a lot of them have
actually paid for it,
which is great.
So who's using it?
Places like ABC, KTVX, and ABC affiliate.
They use it for all
their news broadcasts.
Obviously this is just a tiny little
sampling of where it's being used.
But an example in the broadcast space,
an example in Hollywood, Lady Killers,
one of the more recent
Coen Brothers films,
was cut on Final Cut Pro.
Also Cold Mountain, a massive one,
a Cate Award nominee,
didn't quite make it but almost there,
beat out by Lord of the Rings,
yeah couldn't compete with that,
was edited with Final Cut Pro.
That's Lady Killers and Cold Mountain.
Television show Nib Tuck is
edited with Final Cut Pro.
They have a format or a workflow
format that starts from film.
They actually shoot on 35mm film,
telecine that to an
uncompressed HD format,
and then take that down to DigiBeta
and then to DV for editing,
and then they relink back to their
DigiBeta for final broadcast.
And that means that in the future,
if they manage to get
syndication for HD broadcast,
they can go back and relink or
recut to the original HD tapes
and broadcast the same show in HD.
So that's one of the
advantages of Final Cut Pro,
giving the ability to go from
format to format like that.
It's the same app the whole way through.
So let's take a quick look at a video,
and then we will come
back to slides this time.
This video is something we
produced for NAB this year.
This is a sampling of what our customers
are doing with all of the Pro products.
So this is Final Cut Pro, DVD Studio Pro,
Shake, Logic, and this is the video
that introduced Motion.
Let's go back to the slides, please.
We absolutely love that piece.
It was produced for us right before NAB,
as I said,
obviously highlighting all the Pro apps.
One of the questions I get a lot is,
was that produced entirely
with Apple software,
or was it all Final Cut and
Shake and Motion and so on?
And the answer is no.
No, we didn't.
It was a lot of--it
was Cut and Final Cut,
and Motion was used, and Shake was used,
and so on.
But we also used a lot
of third-party apps.
The only reason I bring that
up is to highlight to you guys,
as our third-party developers,
that this is really important.
You know,
we really need your guys' stuff.
After Effects is using this,
Photoshop is some Illustrator work,
and tons of stuff from Adobe,
tons of other smaller third-party
company filters and plug-ins
and so on were used in there.
So it really is spread throughout.
So I say that just so that you don't
look at something like that and think,
"Well,
what am I doing?" You are doing the stuff
that allows us to do things like that.
So that's awesome.
All right, so let's get into,
on the topic of third-party,
some of the third-party developers on
the hardware side of Final Cut Pro.
Companies like AJA, Aurora,
Blackmagic Design,
and Pinnacle Systems are all
making third-party capture
cards for Final Cut Pro.
Now, Final Cut Pro on its own is,
without anything else, up until recently,
was DV only, right?
You had to have some kind of
third-party capture card to get
other formats in there besides DV,
whether it was standard
definition uncompressed or
high definition uncompressed,
required a third-party capture card.
Now, with Final Cut Pro HD,
things changed a little bit
because now we have the ability
to capture HD over FireWire,
but that's a very specific format of HD,
and I will talk about that a
little bit more in a moment.
That does not mean that all these
third-party cards are no longer relevant.
In fact, they're extremely relevant.
If you're doing standard definition,
first of all, you still require a
standard definition card.
If you want to capture standard
definition uncompressed,
AJA makes a couple of options.
They have the Kona SD card,
SD for standard def.
They also have the IO,
which is a great FireWire box that allows
you to capture standard definition,
8 and 10 bit uncompressed over FireWire,
which is just awesome,
and that's something
that we released at NAB,
I guess that must have been last year.
Aurora makes a card that
specifically designed to handle
24 frame per second editing.
So if you're doing a film
edit at 24 frames per second,
this will allow you to view your
film edit on an NTSC monitor
at 30 frames per second,
and a true NTSC at true 30 frames,
and it'll do that pull-up automatically
so that you have that type of
a preview on the NTSC monitor.
Blackmagic Design is making some very,
very cost-effective capture cards,
very simple, not a whole lot to them,
simply SDI,
that's a serial digital interface,
in and out.
Very low cost,
and that's basically all it does is it
gives you digital interface in and out.
If you want analog interfaces,
you need to add options onto it,
but if you're just looking
for serial digital,
it's quite possibly the
lowest cost way to go.
And then Pinnacle's kind of the
other side of the game there.
They have one of the more
higher costing cards,
but obviously with that
you get a lot of features.
So their standard definition card gives
you a huge amount of real-time effects.
They also have an HD option,
where you have an HD breakout
box that gives you the ability to
capture uncompressed high definition.
Now someone had asked me beforehand,
with the Final Cut Pro HD,
does that mean they no longer
need their Pinnacle HD card?
Well no, because Final Cut Pro HD,
the whole thing about HD in there
is the Panasonic DVC Pro HD format.
And again,
I'll touch more on that in a moment,
but what I want to mention here
is that all of our current,
well not all,
but the current HD cards from
Pinnacle and from AJA will allow
you to convert HD cam footage
on capture into DVC Pro HD,
which means you can now edit it in
real-time in Final Cut Pro software only.
So these cards are still very viable.
If you're not shooting
with a Panasonic camera,
you can still use the other HD formats,
convert using these cards into
the native DVC Pro HD format.
Some of the other stuff that
goes on with Final Cut Pro,
obviously things like
QuickTime and FireWire,
huge technologies in there.
XML support,
that's our big third-party link
to get out to the outside world.
XML is a way to export and
import in Final Cut Pro,
and just about anything can
happen when you go down that road.
Discreet, obviously,
does things like combustion,
and we work with combustion via XML.
Companies like the BBC using it.
And then Grass Valley is one
of our more recent partners,
and back at NAB, we had this ad running
all over the place.
What's a file between friends?
Once again, using the XML architecture,
we're able to transfer files or
projects from Final Cut Pro into
the Grass Valley news edit system
for immediate broadcast to air.
So you now have an end-to-end
solution that we give you editing
in the field out to broadcast.
So you now have an end-to-end
solution that we give you editing
in the field out to broadcast.
all working together.
So HD, once again,
is what Final Cut Pro HD is all about.
Now just to clarify,
Final Cut Pro HD does not lose
any of the previous features.
It still has DV editing,
standard definition, uncompressed,
and so on.
In fact, Final Cut Pro has pretty
much always done HD.
The only reason we added HD under
the name on this was to really bore
home the fact that we are talking
about this new real-time HD format.
Now let's talk for a moment about
standard uncompressed HD editing,
the way that you're used to
working before Final Cut Pro HD.
You shoot in a camera-native format
that is either HD cam or DVC Pro HD.
These are the two standard
HD formats out there.
HD cam is from Sony,
DVC Pro HD is from Panasonic,
and they are the makers of the two
primary digital HD cameras in the world.
You would then capture that into
Final Cut Pro using one of the
cards that we mentioned earlier,
but you would capture it
into an uncompressed space.
Now that has made sense.
In that process, you're effectively
decompressing the image,
but you're not actually
adding anything to it.
So what happens is a lot of
people missed out on the fact that
HD tapes are not uncompressed.
The footage that goes on
the tapes is just like DV.
DV is not uncompressed.
It's a 4 or 5 to 1 compression.
So you have a massive amount of
compression that's happening in the
camera before it ever goes to tape.
So if you take this HD cam or
DVC Pro HD tape and you capture
it into an uncompressed space,
you're not gaining anything.
You're actually taking that,
moving it into an uncompressed space.
And by the time you get back to tape,
you will have suffered
a generational loss.
So the next step in here, of course,
is to go back to tape,
so into your camera native HD,
and that recompress,
and there's where your
generational loss is happening.
Now that's just a silly way to go.
We'll come back to kind of the
new solution to that in a moment.
While I'm talking about uncompressed,
I want to talk about the
hardware requirements.
Obviously, a very high-powered G5,
a ton of storage, for example,
the XServe RAID or any other
RAID solution out there.
You need a third-party capture card,
the Kona card, the Pinnacle card,
and so on.
And you need a HD broadcast monitor.
These things don't come cheap.
They run about $40,000 to $60,000,
depending on your options,
if that's for a TV.
of expensive.
I know, it's crazy.
And this is what you need to do
uncompressed high definition editing.
Well, let's go back to the way that
we were talking about it.
And slide--oh, this is right.
Okay.
So, this is the way that it used to be,
right?
Uncompressing and going back
to the native HD format,
but what we've done is we've
replaced that entire process
with a FireWire cable.
This is FireWire A,
the standard default every
single Mac ships with
FireWire A type of a FireWire.
Not B, not the really fast stuff,
standard FireWire.
It's unbelievable that we can
actually do HD over FireWire.
Now, how in the heck does that work?
Well, what it does mean before
we get into how it works,
it means that your hardware
requirements change dramatically.
G5, you can now capture and edit from
an internal drive using FireWire and
using the new DVI video out function,
you can actually preview
on an Apple Cinema display.
Now, this is not a color accurate
display for broadcast.
It's an RGB versus YUV, right?
So, this means that you cannot do your
final color correction on this.
But it does mean that you can
outfit a studio with ten HD editors
and you can actually do your
final color correction on this.
So, you can have a studio
with ten HD editors,
each with their own HD monitor
and not break the bank.
You can have just one of those
$60,000 monitors in your color
correction station and everybody else
gets one of these monitors to be able
to preview their HD at full screen.
So, that's some of the way we've
saved on the cost on there.
Let's go back to the native
DVC-Pro-HD format and why
this works over FireWire.
So, first of all, it is camera native.
There's no recompression.
I touched on that.
We're shooting in DVC-Pro-HD,
capturing DVC-Pro-HD, editing DVC-Pro-HD.
So, there's no recompression.
You can also use the same format.
This is the same HD that you've
been using since day one.
422, color space, YUV,
it's a professional HD format.
You also have multiple sizes
and frame rate options with
the Panasonic DVC-Pro-HD codec,
including 1080i, which is 1920 by 1080,
720p, 720 by 1280, 24,
30 and 60 frames per second frame rates.
And actually, the Panasonic camera,
something called the VariCam,
allows you to alter that
frame rate on the fly.
Pretty cool feature of that.
The data rates of this HD is
a surprisingly low 5.8 to 5.9.
So, that's, you know,
a pretty good feature.
So, you can actually use that.
You can also use the Panasonic
5.8 to 14 megabytes per second.
You're thinking, wait a minute,
that doesn't make sense.
DV is only like 6 or 5
or something like that.
How can this be HD?
Again, it's a compressed format.
Before you think,
I don't want to compress my footage,
remember what I was saying earlier.
It's already compressed.
That's how it was shot to tape.
In fact, if you wanted to shoot
true uncompressed HD,
there is no tape format
in the world for that.
D5 is the traditionally
highest quality HD tape format.
A D5 is compressed 2 to 1.
Most people consider that to
be the highest quality and
it's actually compressed.
The only way to shoot, well,
let me back up for a second.
There actually was a deck produced
that was fully uncompressed.
It's called a D6.
There's like three of them in the
world and George Lucas has all of them.
We don't even talk about that.
If you want to shoot
truly uncompressed HD,
the only way to do it is to take
a camera with an HD-SDI output and
plug it straight into a G5 with
two XRV raids striped together
because you need that much bandwidth
and you capture straight to disc.
We've done it.
It's really cool.
It looks great,
but at any for everybody and
it sure as heck isn't portable.
That is not the traditional way to go.
You shoot to tape and off you go.
All right.
[Transcript missing]
Obviously,
this is all a huge breakthrough in value.
You have a HD editing system that
essentially costs less than $5,000.
That including the deck and the camera,
but we're not talking about shooting,
we're talking about editing.
So under $5,000,
you have everything you need
to edit high-definition video.
[Transcript missing]
The price of this thing, well,
$9.99 for Final Cut Pro HD,
and a $3.99 upgrade from
the previous versions,
but it is a free upgrade
for Final Cut Pro 4 users.
I had somebody ask me earlier,
I just bought 4, now you have 4 HD.
It's the same thing.
Just run software update, it'll download,
and off you go.
Alright, enough of that.
Let's get into the good stuff.
Any questions?
Oh, by the way, question-wise,
feel free to shout out questions
while we're going here.
We have a total of 75 minutes.
I've got 55 minutes left in this demo.
I can save time at the end for Q&A,
which I'm going to at least
save like five minutes,
but we can save more than that.
But I encourage you to shout
out questions as they come up.
If you're close to the microphone
and you can step up to it,
great.
If not, just shout it out at me and
I'll repeat the question so that
it can be recorded onto tape.
But feel free to ask questions
throughout this project.
Thanks.
There's the actual reel
that we played back in HD.
Let's just go ahead and close this out.
And here is the project that
I'm going to be building.
I'm going to go ahead and play
this back to see the piece that
we're going to be building.
Again, as I mentioned in the beginning,
this is the same project
that I did in the last demo,
but I'm going to this time focus
on the more advanced features
and less on the more basic stuff.
So let's just go ahead and
take a quick look at the final
piece that we're creating here.
[Transcript missing]
And if I want to isolate that search down
or narrow the search down a little bit,
I can go in here and command
click on these various
buttons to refine the search.
Let's just say drums clean.
Let's go for some clean drums.
Now I have 568 drums that have
been tagged as clean drums.
If I want to refine that even more,
clean intense drums down to 42.
And you see where we're going here.
All right,
so that's basically how you go about
finding the pieces that you want.
So regardless of whether you have
an idea in your head of what you
want to create or you're just
going completely blind at this,
you can just go in and start
clicking around and just spend all
day clicking on different samples,
find something you like, and go, ooh,
I like that vibe.
Let's build off of that,
and then start to stack the pieces.
Now, the way that you add pieces into
the project is simply drag and drop.
I take this little club beat here and
just drag it onto the timeline like that.
Or let's go ahead and scroll
down in here a little bit.
[Transcript missing]
You can see like this first upright bass,
it dropped two levels there,
dropped like a quarter octave
or something like that.
I don't know, I'm not a musician.
Little tambourines in there.
[Transcript missing]
If you're using the Pro HD,
you can export this as a stack so
that you can actually play the music.
It's a standard stereo mix-down
pair of all of this mixed
down to a single stereo file.
Bring that into Final Cut and edit.
And that's what I've done and
I'll show you that in a second.
Or you could export this out as
a stack so that you can actually
give every individual file,
every individual instrument rather,
as a separate file off to your musician.
Then the musician can reassemble
those in Logic or Pro Tools,
whatever they're using,
and further enhance your work or throw
it all away and start from scratch.
So what I've done in here is I've
chosen export mix that exported out
that mix as a single stereo file,
which if I go back to Final Cut,
I already have in here and there
is that stereo file in there.
So I'm not going to spend a
whole lot of time on the basics,
but I do want to fly through
building some of these pieces.
So I'm actually going to move
really fast for a couple steps here.
I want to build up the
basics of this project.
Again, being the advanced course,
I'm assuming that people understand
the basics of marking in and out
points and doing stuff like that.
So I'm just going to go ahead and fly
through it so you can see me building it.
And of course,
I'll talk through what I'm doing.
But feel free, once again,
to interrupt me if you want to go, wait,
what did you just do?
Feel free to interrupt me on there.
So I'm going to start with
a blank canvas on here.
Blank canvas on there.
Take this double treble beat on here,
and I'm going to find the pitch
change that is somewhere in the
first measure or second measure.
There's the pitch change there,
so let's just go ahead and
zoom into that on the timeline,
and I will mark that pitch change.
By tapping the M key,
I've just added a marker on there,
and I know that that is a pitch change.
And if I play this
forward a little bit more,
I'll find the second pitch change,
which should be right about here.
There we go.
So once again,
zoom into that to make sure
I have it accurate there,
add a marker on that
place on the timeline,
and then take the entire audio track,
drag it onto the timeline like so.
Now I have this audio on the timeline
with the two markers applied at the
pitch change so that I know that if
I want to edit to those pitch changes,
those markers are already in place there.
So let's go ahead and get our
first piece of media on there.
I have this great indigo
flower shot in here.
I can mark in and outs manually on there
by simply tapping the I and the O key
on the keyboard to mark my in and outs,
or let's go ahead and clear those out.
I can make a final duration by
simply typing in a number up here.
So in this case,
I'll say two seconds and four frames.
And I know I want two seconds
and four frames because if
I look down at the timeline here,
the first beat is at four
seconds and nine frames,
and I want about half of that.
So cut it in half, give or take,
call it two seconds, four frames.
There's a two second, four frame shot.
That I've now added
to the timeline there.
This golden wheat shot,
I'm going to also mark
an in and out point.
This time I'll do it numerically
in the sense that I know exactly
where the in and the out should be.
Someone's told me where they go.
This little window up here
shows me that readout.
So let's just go up here and
type in the time that I want,
which is two hours, 15 minutes,
44 seconds and 20 frames.
Hit return, and the playhead jumps to
that point just like that.
Now you're thinking,
why on earth is this clip listed as
15 hours long or whatever it was,
or two hours and 15 minutes long?
Well, this is a piece off of a tape.
And generally when you're shooting
in a professional environment,
every new tape is going
to have a new hour on it,
so that you have no chance
of duplicate time code.
So every single tape,
if you're going to shoot 100 tapes,
the hour is one through 100.
And you will take that hour one tape
and pop it in and start recording.
And then when you are
capturing your footage,
if you see something
that comes from hour two,
15 minutes,
you know that that is on tape too.
There's no question about it.
So that's why you have the
long time code on there.
So let's just go ahead and
mark an in point right there.
And I'm going to put my out point
at a specific point as well,
which let's just rearrange this
so I can see my notes in here.
This is a nice little function in here,
by the way,
the ability to resize and readjust your
interface by simply dragging on any point
between the interface windows in there,
which is kind of cool.
Let's shrink that down a little bit.
When you're on a small working
space like this is here,
that becomes very, very handy,
because otherwise you'll
just always be lost.
All right, let's go ahead and type
in the new time there,
215, 48, 23, hit return.
It brings me to that point on that clip,
mark an out point,
and then just drag and drop that
directly onto the timeline as well.
So now I have these two shots on here.
And let's go ahead and
take this last shot,
the Japanese lanterns,
drop that on there as well.
Notice this last shot here
has a cool focus shift in it.
Now I want to take advantage of that
focus shift to line it up to an event,
in this case an audio pitch change,
a musical pitch change.
Let's go ahead and open this
clip into the viewer here,
scrub through it,
and I'll look for that focus change.
It's right about there.
Now the focus change
obviously happens over time,
and the musical beat is
happening on an instant.
So we're going to have a
little bit of slop in here,
but let's just go ahead
and put that marker,
let's say, right about there,
just partway into that change.
I'll add a marker on the timeline there.
And if I want to edit that marker by
simply tapping the M key a second time,
I open up my edit marker,
and I can add in here text, for example,
focus shift, and now I know that that's
where my focus shift occurs.
Going back to the timeline here,
you'll notice that I have on here my
clip with that marker that I applied,
and then this marker on the audio track
showing me where that pitch shift was.
I want to line up those two instances,
so to do that I will use the slip tool,
which I simply grab from here,
click on that marker,
and drag the two markers to line up.
Now the slip tool very briefly
allows me to essentially reach
in through a window of time.
If I've got a five second long clip,
and I've marked one second of that,
I'm reaching into that one second
and changing the content of that one
second without changing the duration.
By doing that,
I'm effectively changing the in point
and the out point simultaneously,
but all I'm seeing is the final output,
the final in and out,
and I don't have to deal with
the stuff in the background.
So if I look at this now playing back,
it should line up on the beat somewhat.
There we go.
All right,
so now I have those clips in there.
I think that works out pretty well.
Let's go ahead and move
on to the next piece.
Next thing I want to do
is talk about transitions.
Obviously, transitions,
you've all seen them in Final Cut Pro.
You have your basic default cross-resolve
transition in here that I can add,
or I can go into my effects tab,
open up my transitions folder,
and get through any of
these other transitions.
Notice in here, I actually have quite
a few third-party ones.
I think Joe is in the audience this time.
Sorry, Joe,
I don't have yours installed on this one,
but there's a lot of
third-party filters out there,
third-party plugins for Final Cut Pro,
which is just great.
Absolutely great.
Actually, some of my favorite ones
are from third-party.
Let's just quickly take
a look at how these work.
I can go ahead and
change any of these out.
For example, try Diamond Iris.
Just drag and drop that
on and play that back.
I want to try a channel map on here.
Let's see what that looks like.
Drop that on.
[Transcript missing]
This is a G5 2.0, right?
These aren't 2.5s, right?
It's 2.0?
2.0.
2.0, yeah.
This is a 2.0.
All running off the internal hard drive.
I threatened to bring my RAID up here,
but frankly, my back couldn't take it,
so I decided not to.
I'm doing this entire demonstration
off of a single internal drive,
not even a stripe drive,
just one internal drive.
[Transcript missing]
Alright,
so there's basic transitions in there.
Let's go ahead and take a look
quickly at some basic compositing.
The shots that I'm going to work
with are this shot here of the
Golden Gate Bridge and that one.
I'm going to go ahead and take this
first one and add it onto the timeline.
And of course if I play this through,
it's just playing back normally.
What I want to do is composite
this shot on top of it.
Now if I take this shot and I just drag
it on top of the timeline like that,
you'll see that it's actually
bigger than the shot underneath.
So I can trim this back manually,
but that's a multiple step way to do it.
So instead of doing that,
I'll go back up here with the playhead
above the clip that I'm working with,
take this shot, drag it on,
and choose superimpose.
That automatically trims the shot
to match the one underneath it.
So now I have the top shot exactly
the same size as the bottom one.
And if I want to go in here
and change the end point,
I can simply click and drag like that.
And find a position to put that.
Let's just go ahead and line it
up with this next bead in here.
I think that's where I want it.
So what we've just done here is
effectively like any other edit.
It doesn't look like there's any good
reason to have multiple clips on here,
but this is where we're going to get
into the compositing side of things.
What I want to do is have both of these
images on screen at the same time.
So to do this, I need to get into
some basic compositing,
cropping, repositioning, and so on.
Now if I crop and reposition
this bottom clip here,
it's going to affect the entire clip.
I don't want the entire clip affected.
I want the first part of
the shot to be normal,
so I need to use my razor blade tool.
Tap B on the keyboard to
bring up my razor blade.
Simply add a little slice right there,
and I now have this shot.
I don't want that behaving
as a separate piece.
So if I go in here and
I start editing these,
I can edit them separately
from the first part.
So let's go ahead and take
this top shot on here,
and I'm going to go into wireframe
plus image mode by tapping
the W key on the keyboard.
That means I can see both my image
and the wireframe simultaneously.
If I wanted to go in
here and reposition this,
I could do that.
I can scale it however I like on here.
If I want to go in here and grab,
for example, the distortion tool,
I can do that and distort that image.
And this is all going to
play back in real time.
Let's just go ahead
and take a quick look.
Let's get that in there.
Distort like so, and I can play all
this back in real time.
So that's pretty good.
Now,
motion allows you to actually make those
kind of changes while it's playing back.
Motion's unbelievable.
But obviously,
motion is all about motion graphics.
So this is a video editor,
so we don't quite go
into that realm in here.
But you're going to see that
I actually have a considerable amount
of motion graphics and compositing
tools built right into Final Cut Pro.
So let's just go ahead and
reset these two because I've
kind of messed them up there.
And a way to reset
your functions in here,
instead of having to go into
the motion tab and reset,
reset, reset, I can simply take a clip,
control click on it, and choose, oh,
where is it?
I know the keyboard shortcut.
Here it is.
Remove attributes.
Remove attributes brings up
a dialog that says remove X,
Y, and Z.
And in this case,
I can remove basic motion and distortion.
I don't have filters or speed effects
or anything else applied to it,
so you can see that they're grayed out.
Let's just go ahead and say remove
basic motion and distortion,
and it'll set that back to normal.
And I'm also going to do the same
thing to the clip underneath.
Hit the keyboard shortcut to
remove basic motion on there.
All right,
so both these shots are back to normal.
Let's go ahead and take that shot,
bring up my crop tool
by tapping the C key,
and I'm just going to crop
that image in like so.
Now, I can, of course,
do this manually as I'm doing here.
I can go in here and just
adjust these like that.
Or if I want to get a little
bit more control over it,
over here in the viewer,
if I click on the motion tab,
you'll see that I have
access to my cropping,
basic motion controls, and so on.
So I like to work with solid numbers
when I'm doing this sort of thing
because it makes it easier if I'm
going to calculate changes later
for me to do the math in my head.
So I'm just going to go in here
and punch in some solid numbers.
I'm going to go ahead and crop
the left side just down to three,
and I'll bring the right side up to N52,
and then I'm going to crop the
top and bottom both down three.
So there you can see I've
got exactly the right crop.
It's exactly cropped on the
top and bottom the same amount.
I know exactly where I'm headed here.
Let's go ahead and take the shot
underneath and do the same thing.
I can, once again,
go in here and do these numerically,
or I can just drag them.
Let's just go ahead and
grab that crop tool again,
drag these shots.
Now, you can see here that I'm going
to need to reposition this shot.
So let's go ahead and crop in this side,
reposition that shot over like that,
crop it in about like so,
and bring that down and
this one up to match.
And once again,
I do actually want the tops
and bottoms to match on here.
So let's just go ahead and
open that up into the viewer,
into the motion tab,
and under the crop controls
on the top and bottom,
I'll put in exactly three and three.
So now I have exactly the
right numbers in there.
All right, so that looks pretty good.
It's fairly well centered in here.
And if I play this back now,
you'll see that we're obviously
going from the one shot to the
two up in a basic composite.
So now on to the next step.
I really like the effect
that I've got on here.
What if I want to replicate that effect?
I want to have it go
to those two squares,
and I want to have it go to four squares,
or eight squares, or 16 squares,
and just keep on repeating down.
And I want to have that
happen on the beat.
This is a fairly complex amount of
compositing that we're about to do here,
but as you'll see,
it's really quite easy to
do inside of Final Cut.
I'm not going to affect
my first stack here.
I really like the way those are playing,
so I'm going to leave them alone,
but I'm going to copy,
just hit Command-C to copy,
and then Command-V to paste.
And what I've just done here is
put a duplicate copy of that,
so now I'm seeing the same
thing playing back twice.
I'll then take this new stack of clips,
and I'm going to nest them.
Nesting them allows me to
take any number of clips,
no matter how complex it is,
and flatten it down to a single file.
Now when I say flatten,
it's only flattened in the visual sense,
because you can double-click on
that new nest on your timeline.
And it will open up into a new
project and show you the entire
sequence that you had built before,
no matter how complex it was,
it's all there.
Which means you can go back
in and edit that at any time.
Now there's other solutions out
there that do a similar effect
where they collapse everything,
but once you've collapsed it,
you're toast.
There's no going back and making changes.
So what we've done is allowed
you to simply take a stack,
now obviously this is very simple,
just two clips.
But I'll take that,
and I'll say nest items,
and I'm going to call that
just Golden Gate Nest.
And I hit OK.
And it adds a new stack.
It adds that nest to the timeline,
so now there's a single
clip on the timeline,
and if I double-click on it,
there is the nest that I just created.
There's those two clips.
If I want to make a change to it, I can.
Let's go ahead and close the nest,
go back to the main shot on here.
There we go.
And once again, it's a duplicate.
Nothing's changed visually in here.
I simply have one shot on here.
But the reason that I did this
is because now that it's a nest,
I can apply a filter to an entire nest,
to an entire series of images at once.
So let's just take a look
at this from a really simple
perspective for a second here.
So let's just say I'm
doing color correction.
I've got a huge stack of images
that haven't been color corrected.
They're composites,
and there's all kinds of text effects,
and just all kinds of stuff going on.
And the client looks at it and says,
"That's really great,
but I want the whole thing
to be bluer." Thanks.
So that means you've got
a thousand clips in here.
You have to go individually
color correct each one.
Well, with the nesting function,
I can take all those clips,
nest them into a single clip,
and apply a color correction
to the nest itself.
And then any change that I make
will be applied to that nest.
So that's basically what
I'm going to do here.
But I'm not going to do color correction.
I'm going to use a replicate filter.
So let's go ahead and
find the replicate filter.
I've got it saved off here as a favorite.
Here it is, my replicate filter.
And by the way,
all your effects are stored over here,
of course, in the effects tab.
And they're stored somewhere
here in video filters.
And if I couldn't find the
one that I'm looking for,
I'd say, "Oh, I know there's a replicate
filter somewhere,
but I don't know where it is." The find
function inside Final Cut Pro will
also find filters and effects.
So I can go in here
and type in replicate,
hit return, and it shows me that I have a
replicate in my CGM effects.
And I have another one
in my stylized effects.
So I've got two replicate
filters in here to choose from.
Kind of nice.
All right, so let's go back over here.
I've already saved out
the replicate filter.
I'm just going to drag
this onto the nest itself.
And as you can see,
it's immediately applied
its default setting,
and it's replicated that.
Now, this is a little tip in here.
If you're used to doing filters
and effects in Final Cut,
you're used to adding
an effect to a clip.
And then you can double-click that
clip into the viewer and access
the filters and effects tabs,
right?
So if I double-click
on the CG nest in here,
it's simply going to open the nest.
Well, where's my filter?
If I open these up,
you'll see the filter's not
applied here because it hasn't
applied it individually.
So what happened to it?
Well, let's go back to the timeline.
And what you need to do is actually
open this object into the viewer itself.
Now, I can do that multiple ways.
I can simply drag this
up into the viewer,
and it opens it into the viewer.
And now I have access to the
filter that I just added.
Or I can control-click on
here and say open in viewer.
And the shortcut for that is
to simply hit Option-Return,
and it will-- That's the wrong one.
Maybe it's Command-Return.
You know, you think you know everything.
Command, return, option, option,
double click.
That was it.
I knew it was something like that.
Option, double click.
We'll open that up.
But this is a perfect segue.
I meant to do that.
This is a perfect segue into one of the
great new functions of Final Cut Pro,
and that's the mappable keyboard.
I obviously don't remember what
the keyboard shortcut is for that,
and maybe there isn't one.
Let's find out.
I'll hit option H, because I do remember
that keyboard shortcut,
to bring up my mappable keyboard.
This was introduced in 4.0,
Final Cut Pro 4.0.
This allows me to remap
any keyboard function.
Basically, anything that's in the menus,
I can change the keyboard shortcut,
or apply a new one,
or put one where there
didn't used to be one.
I want to find open in viewer,
so I'll just type in open in viewer,
and apparently there is no keyboard
shortcut available for that.
Sweet.
That's why you have to
control-click on it.
We knew that.
There we go.
Anyway, in here,
if you wanted to change the
keyboard shortcut for anything else,
since I'm in here,
let's say you wanted to change
the keyboard shortcut for
something as simple as open.
You see on here it's listed as command-O.
That's your standard
default keyboard shortcut.
If I look over here at my modifying tabs,
there's the command, there's O,
there's the open command.
Let's say that I want to change that.
I want to make it command-option F9.
I don't know why, but you do.
I can take this open command,
let's unlock the keyboard here,
take that open command,
drag that onto here,
and now you see command-O and
command-option F9 are available
with keyboard shortcuts.
If you change your mind,
you can simply take that and drag it off,
and off it goes.
You've changed the
keyboard shortcut again.
You can save keyboard shortcut
layouts if you want to,
which means if you're working
with multiple editors,
you can have different
layouts for different editors.
Also, this means that if you are coming
from an alternate editing system,
for example,
you're coming from Premiere or
you're coming from the Avid,
and you want to use the same
keyboard shortcuts that you've
been using for the last 10 years,
you don't have to learn everything anew.
You can reprogram this, or actually,
if you look around on
the net a little bit,
you'll find pre-built custom
keyboard layouts that people have
created and shared on the net,
and you can just download those,
load one in, and then off you go.
All right.
Let's go ahead back on to the edit here.
We're back to having this
nest open in the viewer by
simply saying open in viewer.
There she is, and here's the filters tab.
The filter, by default,
this replicate filter,
had applied a two-by-two replication.
You can see I've got two instances
horizontal and two instances vertical.
What I want to have happen is,
roughly on the beat,
I want to have it go from two
replications to three replications.
This is key framing of filter effects.
Down here in my timeline
inside of the viewer,
because you always have a
miniature timeline in the viewer,
I can scrub the playhead.
You'll notice as I do this,
it's scrubbing on both the
canvas and the timeline as well,
so I always know exactly
where I'm looking.
I'm just going to split this
roughly down the middle here,
say right about there,
and I'm going to add a keyframe.
Simply click on these little nubs
there to add keyframes to it.
Now, initially, nothing happens.
The default setting was two and two,
and I've locked a keyframe
in there at two and two.
But if I advance forward one frame,
so with the keyboard, just the arrow key,
advance forward one frame,
I'm then going to go
ahead and punch in three,
and three.
I'll just use little arrows there
to punch that up a little bit,
and I've now gone from two
to two to three by three.
Now, this could be anything,
and this could be any number,
and most of these filter effects
you can gradually do over time.
Now, the replicate filter,
there's nothing between
two and three replications,
so it's going to jump
immediately from two to three,
which is why I went ahead and just did
that second keyframe one frame forward.
But if, for example,
you're doing a Gaussian blur from
one pixel blur to a ten pixel blur,
if you put that out with
100 frames in between,
it's going to stretch that blur
effect out over 100 frames.
If you put in one frame after the other,
it's going to effectively go instantly
from that low blur to the high blur.
All right, so there I have that low blur,
I'm sorry, the two by two replicate
followed by the three by three.
Let's go ahead and play that back
and see what it looks like now.
"Okay, that didn't work.
What happened?
Did it work or just didn't play?
I think I may be exceeding
my real-time capabilities of
playing off the internal drive,
so I'm just going to drop
the quality here from high to
medium just to play this back.
Let's see what
There we go.
Did it do that the first
time and I just missed it?
Yes, I'm a pro.
Can you tell?
All right, so there we go.
Back to high quality.
That's much better.
OK, so there's your basic-- sorry?
He asked about the timeline.
Why did it just turn orange up there?
This color bar up here is representative
of your real-time status in here.
Real-time in earlier
versions of Final Cut Pro,
from version 2 and version 3,
you either had a green bar,
which meant it was real-time,
or a red bar,
which meant it had to be rendered,
or a dark blue bar that said
it was already rendered.
He asked about the timeline.
Why did it just turn orange up there?
Real-time in earlier
versions of Final Cut Pro HD,
you either had a green bar,
which meant it had to be rendered,
or a red bar that said
it was already rendered.
So those are your three choices.
Then we went into real-time extreme,
RT Extreme with Final Cut Pro 4.
RT Extreme, as I mentioned earlier,
allows you to change the quality
of your image playback and gain
or lose real-time capabilities.
So green bar still means
it's a real-time effect.
If you have a dark green bar,
that means it's a guaranteed,
full-quality real-time effect.
Full-quality meaning that it
doesn't even have to render
before it goes out to tape.
Now, there's not a whole lot you
get there on today's machines.
The next generation of
machines will give you more,
and so you'll have to make sure
that you have a real-time effect.
So, for example,
now I can do things on a G5,
like take high-definition footage,
apply color correction to two clips,
and it crosses all between them,
and never have to render,
not even before it goes back to tape.
So this isn't real-time preview.
This is full-quality real-time.
Once it goes to that bright green bar,
that means it's real-time,
but does require rendering
before output to tape.
The orange bar means that
you're in RT Extreme land.
This is saying, whoa,
ain't promising nothing here.
You may drop a frame,
your quality may be a little bit shoddy,
but we're going to do our job.
So, for example,
if I go back to this effect here,
you'll notice that it
went orange in there.
It is saying that it's going to do
its best to play back in real-time,
and in this case, it's no problem.
It's doing it fine.
It may have actually
skipped a frame in there.
Who knows?
It doesn't matter.
We're seeing it play back.
It's keeping up-to-date
the whole time in there,
and I know because it's an orange bar.
Now,
I could keep applying effects to this.
That bar will effectively never
change colors as long as I'm
adding real-time effects to it.
I could add 30 filters on here,
and it'll still try to play back.
Now, clearly,
you're going to hit a threshold
where it's no longer going
to be able to play back.
It's going to stutter really bad,
but it's going to keep on trying,
and again, the faster your machine,
the more you're able to do.
So, that's the significance of the
colored render bars up there.
Does nesting affect performance?
I'm not quite sure how you mean.
If you take a nest and you render that,
you can then apply filters and
effects to that rendered nest.
And so let's say that I take 50
effects and I apply them to a nest.
That ain't going to put
it back in real time.
But I collapse the nest, render it,
and then apply color
correction to the nest.
I can do real-time color
correction on that nest.
So by using nests,
you can improve performance of
things that have just gotten so
complex it's bogging the system down.
Is that what you meant?
You can nest nests.
Yes, you can do multiple nests.
There's unlimited nesting.
Just go to your heart's content.
All right,
so there's that effect applied on there.
Let's see what's next in the list.
All right, time remap.
I did this one in the last demo,
but since obviously some
of you haven't been here,
we'll do this one again.
This is a fun effect in here.
You may have remembered
from the beginning when
I first played back the shot,
you saw the pool break hit twice, right,
twice on the beat.
Here's the original shot in here.
It's playing along, pool ball breaks,
and off it goes.
And what I want to do is apply
this time remapping effect in here.
So first thing I need to do is figure out
where to put that break on the timeline.
So let's have a listen to the music here.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, there we go.
So let's just go ahead and put a
marker on the audio clip right there,
and then take this shot,
drag it onto the timeline.
Now I can put this wherever I want.
Obviously I want to line up
those two markers like so,
so now when I play it back...
We're seeing that.
Now I said that I want to have that beat,
the break happened twice,
again on the second beat,
so let's listen for the next
round of that beat in there.
Music
[Transcript missing]
So off to a good start.
I've got the break
happening twice on the beat,
but the ball, the cue ball,
is not going back to the
stick between those shots.
And I really want that to happen,
so we're going to add one more key
frame in here in between these two.
So I've got the key frame
there saying I want to make
sure my balls go out that far.
And then the key frame here
saying that's the second break.
Let's go ahead and put one in between.
Click and drag,
and I will carefully drag that back to
just about where the ball hits the cue.
Let's go right about there.
Perfect.
And once again,
you can see it's going down steeper.
It's going forward now,
but not quite at full speed.
And let's just see what it looks like.
Cool, huh?
Question?
Interpolation types.
So you can do, what do you call it?
What do you call that
kind of interpolation?
I forget.
Time remapping tool.
Frame blending.
Yeah, you have frame blending
that you can turn on or off,
and an effect like this
is absolutely critical.
You have it on,
it will look like rubbish.
Certain effects you'll find
that you want to turn it off.
It just depends on what you're doing
and the speed of the speed change,
whether you want frame
blending on or off.
The type of interpolation it uses,
I have no idea.
I'm not an engineer.
I see it.
Oh, okay.
So the question is, can I go ease in,
ease out on here?
Yes, I can.
I can simply go down here and
control click and choose smooth,
and there it will ease in, ease out.
Let's go ahead and smooth
both of those points in there.
And now as I play that back,
it'll be a little...
[Transcript missing]
The question is,
is the time change adjusting
being applied to all tracks?
No, this is clip specific.
So if I wanted to apply an effect
like this to multiple clips,
I would nest the clips and then
apply the time change or the
time remap to the nest itself.
All right, let's move on here.
I wanted to spend a little bit
of time on-- let's see here.
Do I want to do-- let's see here.
Since we're-- how are we doing on time?
We've got 20 minutes total.
As I said in the beginning,
I love to have the questions
come flying at me throughout.
Is there a number-- can I see a
show of hands how many people were
holding questions off to the end?
[Transcript missing]
All right, so back to this.
Where were we?
I wanted to apply something
on this beat there.
Let's make sure we get the beat lined up.
So right about there.
I'm going to go ahead and take this shot,
and I'll just do an overwrite edit,
applying that on the beat like so.
So as you can see there, that shot,
it's the duration I like.
I've preset the duration so
I don't want to mess with that.
But you'll see that I'm missing
the whole part where he puts
the cup back down again.
He's holding the cup,
he's having a drink, yada yada.
We don't want to look at all that.
We want to cut that out.
So let's go ahead and
scrub using the keyboard,
just the arrow keys.
I'm going to scrub to the first
frame where you can't see the cup.
Tap the B key to get
the razor blade tool.
Cut that so that I've
now trimmed that shot.
Using the slip tool,
tap the S key to bring up the slip tool.
I will click on this and drag
backwards and backwards and
backwards until I see the end point,
the end frame,
which is that top left inside the canvas.
Once I see the cup on there,
I'll know that I'm at the right spot.
So let's keep dragging, dragging,
dragging.
There it is.
Whoa, too fast.
Crap, come back here.
Let's see here.
There we go.
Right about there.
I want it just before that
cup comes back in the picture.
I let go of the mouse and
once again with the slip tool,
I have changed the end point and
the out point simultaneously without
affecting the overall duration.
And now I've just created a jump cut.
The next thing I want to do is
add some motion graphics effects
to the end of this shot here.
I'm going to add a few stills you
may remember from the final playback.
Let's actually just take a quick
look at it so you can see ahead of
time what I'm going to be building.
I'm going to build this.
[Transcript missing]
So let's just go ahead and
shorten that up to about like so.
So now I have that clip, that duration.
So there's my first frame of
the still in there of that cup.
Let's go ahead and zoom
back into these shots here.
I'm going to open this up.
I'm going to grab my second frame.
Let's go about halfway down on the cup.
Shift N again makes the still frame.
And this time I'm going
to choose superimpose,
which will superimpose that shot,
the new one, on top of the original one.
If I hide that using Control B,
you can see the difference
between the two.
Obviously I can just delete that.
And undo it to do the same thing.
Control B, by the way, is a very,
very handy shortcut to very
quickly hide any group or any
number of things on the timeline.
Someone asked me in the last demo if
you can hide an entire track at once.
Yes, that's what this little
button right here does.
It hides that entire track.
So if I want to hide all of track two,
I can do that.
And if I Option click on it,
let's scale this down so you
can see the whole thing at once.
There we go.
If I Option click on one of these,
it hides everything but that track.
So there's lots of little keyboard
shortcuts like that nested away in here.
All
[Transcript missing]
There we go.
There's my little stepping stone.
Now that's the first part of it.
As you saw before, I need to crop these,
so I'm seeing all three of them at once,
and apply a color effect to it.
So you saw me do cropping before.
There's really nothing different in here.
I can go in here, open up this shot,
or just position the playhead
over it on the timeline,
and using the cropping tool,
I can go in here and crop this
and position it however I like.
Now let's just say that you're
doing this sort of thing,
but you're doing it over and over
again for the same type of work.
Basically,
I'm going to create the same effect
multiple times with a similar shot,
and I really don't want to have to do the
same cropping and repositioning and color
effects over and over and over again.
So what I want to do is save the crops
and save the motion effects as a preset.
Well, you can do that in something
called a motion favorite.
So if I select this clip here,
let's just say I want to save the
settings that I've got right there.
I can go up here and say effects,
make favorite effect,
and that's going to save all
the effects associated with
that clip into a little file.
In fact, let's just do that,
and if I go back to my
effects tab in here,
up to the top, favorites,
I've got quite a few in here,
but where's the one I just created?
I don't know which one it is.
Oh, one cappuccino should be.
Oh, that's favorite effects.
That's the wrong one.
Where do we keep those?
They're somewhere in here.
I don't remember where they saved them.
That's hysterical.
I have no idea where that saved it to.
Oh, well, anyway,
they saved them somewhere in there.
You'll find them.
So once they've been saved,
you can reposition them or
put them wherever you like,
and I've done that already.
If I look under here,
under my graphics effects,
you'll see I have my motion
favorites that I've already saved.
Saved off.
So there's three different
motion favorites that I've
created for these three stills.
If I drag this onto here,
it's going to overwrite the effects
that are on there and reposition
it exactly as I had set up before.
So since I don't want to go through
repositioning all these over again,
I'll simply take still two and
drag it onto still two on there.
So there's the second one applied,
and let's go ahead and put the
third one on there as well,
like so.
So now I'm seeing all
three of these like that.
[Transcript missing]
Just drag that right onto
the timeline like so.
And I want to add a
color corrector to it.
Now,
I went through this very quickly before,
but I want to spend a little bit
more time on color correction.
If I go into Video Filters--
Color Correction,
Color Corrector Three-Way--
that applies that three-way
color corrector to this clip.
And here we have my full color corrector.
This gives me access to
color values for the blacks,
the mids, and the whites,
and also the levels to the black, mids,
and whites.
I'll explain a little bit
about the difference in here.
Let's say that you have something that's
supposed to be white-- a white shirt,
a white wedding dress, whatever.
It looks a little bit dingy and dark,
and also looks a little bit yellow.
Well, that's two different things
that you need to correct for.
You need to get rid of the yellow,
and you need to brighten it up.
So two separate controls handled
by two separate controls.
You have over here your color adjuster,
and then underneath that, the levels.
So in this case, you can see the white
is very yellowish dingy,
and the blacks are a little
bit kind of funny as well.
So let's go ahead and
work on changing this.
The easiest way to do it-- is
to use the eyedropper here.
Now, I can go in and change
these by hand if I want to.
I can simply drag this around and
look for the right color space,
or let's just reset that.
By using the eyedropper here, I can say,
these white waves there should be white.
Let's just click on that
and reset it to white.
And if you notice up here,
what's done-- what has just
happened is the little color
dot has pushed towards blue.
We have added blue,
which of course is the
same as taking away yellow.
So by doing that,
I have just fixed my whites.
I need to fix my blacks as well.
Let's go ahead and grab the eyedropper,
and I'll click on something
that should be black.
Let's say that shadow right there.
And it warms the image up a little bit.
It was looking a little bit cool.
And I know that to be true
because of my black levels.
Now that they're accurate,
my black is actually black.
I can see that my image
is a little bit too cool,
and I'm now back to a
more normal looking shot.
Now,
if I want to adjust the levels on here
as well to make the white to actually
white and the black to actually black,
this requires a little bit more
technical know-how to do it right.
Now,
I can go in here and just drag these,
right?
And I can do that and go, oh,
isn't that a pretty white?
That white is definitely blown out.
And I know that it's blown
out if I go up here to my view
and I turn on range checking.
Let's take a look at excess luma.
I can see these little red lines
on there showing me that I'm
definitely blowing out this image.
It's way too bright.
So if I bring down the
sliders a little bit,
let's bring it down,
you can see those changing
from red to green,
red to green.
Let's get rid of all the red.
And you'll also notice that little
yellow exclamation point telling
me that I'm definitely blown out.
So if I bring this down,
keep bringing it down,
that turns into a green check mark.
The green check mark
tells me that I'm OK.
Green check mark with the little
up arrow tells me that I'm
within the top 10% of white,
which is actually where you
want to be for your pure whites.
You want to make sure they're within
that top 10%, and you'll be set.
So there I have perfect whites in there.
Now I need to do the
same thing for my blacks.
Now if I do my blacks,
we're not going to see any
kind of a warning on there,
because the blacks will
just crush to black,
and that's how they're
going to broadcast.
But I do want to make sure that
I'm not losing any data in here.
This is where the scopes come in handy.
Let's go ahead and rearrange
my window layout here.
Go to my color correction layout.
And here I have my video scopes.
I have four different
things I can view at once.
A vector scope, a histogram,
a waveform monitor, and an RGB parade,
which is effectively a waveform monitor
split out individually for the red,
green, and blue channels.
Now actually,
all I'm going to concentrate on
here is the waveform monitor.
So let's just go ahead and
view just the waveforms.
It's a bit more visible.
And if I look at this,
I can see right here that
I'm crushing my blacks.
Look at all that data that has
been slammed down to the bottom,
and you can see a whole
bunch of junk down there,
a bunch of pixels that have
been pushed down to the bottom.
And if I take my black
levels up a little bit,
I can spread those back out
and restore all those blacks.
And if I go too far-- you can see
that I'm now nowhere near black.
My blacks are going to be gray.
So what I want to do is make sure that
this is set so that-- and I can do this
by clicking the little arrow tool to
go really accurately in there-- I want
to make sure that my blacks are just
touching the black levels on there.
Same thing with the whites.
As you saw before, I can blow it out and
see the warning up here.
If I bring the whites up in here,
it'll go beyond that space and
shows me here that I'm blowing out.
Now it doesn't crush the
whites like blacks crush.
They just get blown out.
So you see a little bit of
different feedback in there.
Let's go ahead and bring that down.
So now not only here am
I seeing that I'm safe,
I'm also seeing that right there.
So that's how you use your
video scopes in a nutshell.
There's clearly a lot
more you can do with them,
but that's a real quick overview of them.
The frame viewer here allows
me to do a before and after
side by side of the shot.
So there's your original
and the color corrected one.
And as you can see,
it's quite a dramatic difference there.
Let's open that up a bit.
Quite a dramatic difference
there of the before and after.
This right here, by the way,
is a really good example of why you
definitely need a 30-inch display.
.
I'll tell you what I told the last guys.
What you really need is a
30-inch and then two 23s.
I'm going to tell you why.
So you've got your main
workspace on your 30-inch.
Your 30-inch display is wide enough
that you can see two 720p images,
720p HD images at 100% side-by-side.
Well, actually 99% because the UI gets
in the way just a smidgen.
Technically, there's enough for 100%. I'm
talking to the engineers about that.
I'm going to see if we can
get that changed a little bit.
But you can see effectively
the entire HD images,
two of them side-by-side.
You have a massive amount
of space for your timeline.
Your second HD monitor is where
you put all your browsers.
Because no matter how much space
you have on your main screen,
you are always going to want
the widest timeline possible.
So this screen could be a mile wide,
and I'm still not going to want to keep
my browsers on here because I'm going
to want this timeline to be really,
really wide.
So I take my browser,
shove that off onto the second monitor.
And if it's as big as a 23-inch monitor,
you've got a lot of space to have
multiple browser windows open,
view it in icon view and list view,
and you can stretch them out so you
can see all the metadata and so on.
And then the third monitor
is for your video out.
You saw what I talked about in
the beginning with the slides,
the HD preview of the video out.
And that works, of course,
with DV as well.
You can do video out to your DVI monitor.
And in this case,
I had it playing full screen
on this primary screen,
but if you have a second screen,
it plays out to there.
So there's your 30-inch with
all your workspace on it,
your palettes over here,
your video out over here.
Doesn't that sound like a good way to go?
We all need one.